#summary Tutorial about events and listeners.
#labels Featured

= Widget events =

A widget can receive events for their own usage. They use an _Observer Pattern_ for it : `EventListeners`.

There are two listeners, corresponding to different events.
    * [http://code.google.com/p/sfui/source/browse/trunk/include/MouseListener.hpp sf::ui::MouseListener] : Receive pressed, released, entered, left, and moved events from mouse.
    * [http://code.google.com/p/sfui/source/browse/trunk/include/KeyListener.hpp sf::ui::KeyListener] : Receive pressed, released, and text-entered events from key.

To attach a new listener, you should use 
{{{
ui::Widget::AddMouseListener(ui::MouseListener* listener);
ui::Widget::AddKeyListener(ui::KeyListener* listener);
}}}

or detach it with
{{{
ui::Widget::RemoveMouseListener(ui::MouseListener* listener);
ui::Widget::RemoveKeyListener(ui::KeyListener* listener);
}}}

== 1 - Listener usage ==

First, we create our listener

{{{
#include "MouseListener.hpp"
#include <iostream>

using namespace sf;

class MyListener : public ui::MouseListener
{
    protected :
        void OnMousePressed(const Event::MouseButtonEvent& mouse)
        {
            std::cout << "Mouse pressed !" << std::endl;
        }
};
}}}

Then, we create a widget for testing it :
{{{
#include "Label.hpp"

int main()
{
   ...
   ui::Label myLbl("label");
   myLbl.SetAlignment(ui::Align::CENTER);

   MyListener ourListener;
   myLbl.SetFocusable();
   myLbl.AddMouseListener(&ourListener);
   ...
}
}}}

Voilà !
You can click on the label, it should print the message on the console.
The process is similar to all other events.

== 2 - Listener inheritance ==

There is an other way to use listeners. Indeed, you can make a widget inherited from a listener.
This example show the usage of it with the previous label :

{{{
#include "Label.hpp"
#include "MouseListener.hpp"

class MyLabel : public sf::ui::Label, public sf::ui::MouseListener
{
    public :
        MyLabel()
            : sf::ui::Label()
        {
            SetFocusable();
            SetAlignment(sf::ui::Align::CENTER);
            AddMouseListener(this);
        }

    protected :
        // Inherited from MouseListener
        virtual void OnMousePressed(const sf::Event::MouseButtonEvent& mouse)
        {
            std::cout << "Mouse pressed !" << std::endl;
        }
};
}}}

The basic widgets in SFUI are constructed like this.

For example, the [http://code.google.com/p/sfui/source/browse/trunk/include/TextInput.hpp TextInput widget] inherits from the two listeners, because of cursor and text needings.